What game mechanics have nostalgic meaning to me?

RPG split-screen battles
1.  DragonWarrior style: one hero, one monster.
    - Easy to implement.
    - A bit boring/repetitive to play.
    - The best way is straight forward.
    - The challenge comes from the grind itself,
       and managing your items and MP.
2.  BoF/FF style: one to many heroes, one to many monsters.
    - This is especially interesting if you need to plan
      out who attacks where, and attacks can be wasted.
      (No auto mode.)
    - Manage an entire party, not just one hero.

Harvest Moon && Stardew Valley
1.  Manage crops
    - using tools to:
        - hoe the ground
        - plant seeds
        - water crops
        - harvest produce (when fully grown)
    - Highly satisfying when you see progress over time,
      due to your consistent hard work paying off.
    - After X amount of growing days, the plant is ready to
      harvest!
        - SINGLE vs CONTINUAL harvest types.
    - Durations ... once a day, vs after so many hours?
        - Once per day is easy to program, could be first pass.

        - Optional harder difficulty could be to have watering
          a crop to last for a given duration.  So, say soil
          is WATERED for 8 hours, after which it becomes DAMP.
          After 16 hours, DAMP soil becomes DRY.
          HEALTHY plants grow once every 24 hours.  If their
          SOIL is DRY longer than 24 hours, then plants become
          WILTED.  A WILTED plant will not become healthy unless
          the soil again becomes WATERED.  If the soil remains
          DRY or DAMP for another 24 hours, the plant will then
          be DEAD.

          Some plants have shorter or longer tolerances for
          watering.  For example, cactuses can go weeks without
          needing water; certain fragile plants, such as tropical
          plants, may die immediately without proper water.

          Some plants have a risk of being drowned.  If their
          soil is WET for longer than 24 hours, they will enter
          WILTED status.  This is identical to wilting from
          DRY status, except that the soil needs to become
          DAMP or DRY to save the plant.

          (...may differentiate WILTED_DRY and WILTED_OVERWATERED?)

          Also, some plants will only tolerate certain weather.
          So, if a plant endures bad weather, it may become
          WILTED, OVERWATERED, or DEAD.



2. Raise animals
    - Raise animals and pets, after creating the correct
      enclosure or environment for them.
    - Some animals produce products.  Some are PASSIVE, and
      some are REQUIRE_TOOL to harvest.


...


So, what do my favorite game mechanics have in common?
1. Explore unpredictable new areas and maps.
2. Face challenges you can learn and grow to overcome.
3. Find cool items (loot) while exploring.
4. Maintain and grow stuff into more valuable stuff, so that
   your investment over time creates a sense of payoff.

So, what if while exploring, the whole point was to find
resources, seeds, and valuables that you can then use to
build your home and get better gear that enables you to
explore more areas?

In essence, this is most crafting games.  But thematically,
this can be changed to feel different than

Find clay
Make kiln
Mine ore
Smelt bars
Create armor

etc.

Such as:
--------
A wizard who crafts spells from spell components found in forests,
caves, beaches, etc.

Finding new spells, components and ingredients, and the like to
further his pursuit of arcane knowledge, and the search for
eternal life.

Or:
---
Cogmind


!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
!!!! Even Better !!!!
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

I cannot believe I forgot this ...

In TarotRL, everything is the Tarot.  This can and will be used to
subvert player expectation, and once the base mechanics are introduced
and learned, create truly spectacular and marvelously distinct gameplay.

What does my core mechanic "Everything is the Tarot" mean?

That each of the core game objects that can be interacted with:
- Maps
- Items
- Entities
And whatever else, in some way, shape, or form relates back to each
of the 78 Tarot cards.

As these connections are learned with each playthrough, the player begins
to learn how to treat similar items similarly.  So, if a Potion of Healing
is found to be linked to the Queen Of Cups, and we find a new map that
is the Queen Of Cups map, these entities "fold" upon one another, and
can be interchangeable.

How is this handled with the Game Mechanics?  Possibly, by making the
TarotCard class the root type of all GameState objects.  And, once
associations begin be discovered and understood, These associations are
added in a growing collection of attribute maps.

Map<String, Set<TarotCard>> attributes;

For example, say that healing is associated with Pentacles for one
playthrough.  Then, an entry is added like so:

Map<Suit, List<String>> SuitAttributes;
suitAttributes.put(Suit.PENTACLES, "healing");

This can then be fed into Tracery to produce interesting game text.
But beyond this, how can various attribute associations drive gameplay?

By mapping GameActions, ItemProperties, ElementalTypes, and so forth
to all the various ideas of the Tarot, and having each of these be
randomly assigned at the beginning of each game, or as gameplay drives
these associations based on player action.

Each card will have a set of listeners that listen to all game text and
events for when that specific card, or one of of it's related ideas, are
mentioned.  Following the Queen of Cups example, anytime any game activity
related to the words "Queen", "Cups", "Hearts", "13", or "Female" are
encountered, read, or interacted with in the game, the context of that
interaction is remembered, and new associations may be made.  Such as,
you meet a Queen of the Elves, so "Queen" -> "Elves" is added to the graph.

Encountering the same association multiple times could either add more
edges to the graph, making the association more likely to be traversed, or
to increase the capacity of that edge, making the connection more prominent.

At the beginning, no associations are made.  The Tarot exists separate from
the world.  But as the player begins learning about the world and the
graph begins to grow, once "Tarot" is added to the knowledge base, the game
world begins to change.  This "awakens" the 78 Tarot Cards to begin listening
and adapting game behavior based on what has been learned about the world.

Each of the four elements, Air, Water, Fire, and Earth, maps to both a suit
of the Tarot (Swords, Cups, Wands, and Pentacles) and to an aspect of the
self (Mind, Emotion, Spirit, and Body).  The player character will have
these four selves affected by in game actions.  They come together to produce
the 5th element, the experience of the game itself.

As each Tarot Card gains associations, this effects the balance of the
elements.
